Closed Functionality Products
-----------------------------

As noted in the Introduction, WCAG 2.2 assumes the presence of a “user agent” such as a browser, media player, or assistive technology as a means to access web content. Many of the success criteria in WCAG 2.2 assume web content is accessed using ICT where assistive technologies can be connected to it or installed on it. The assistive technologies then present the web content to the people with disabilities in an accessible form. ICT products with “closed functionality” do not allow the use of some assistive technologies for all of their functions. In many cases, such ICT products also lack a “user agent” or its equivalent. As a result, ICT following the WCAG success criteria by themselves will not make information accessible on ICT with closed functionality. Something else needs to be provided or be required in order to make the information addressed in these success criteria accessible. It is outside the [WCAG2ICT Task Force Work Statement](http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement) to say what the additional measures are, but this Note points out which success criteria depend on assistive technologies—and therefore would not work by themselves in products with closed functionality.

Because closed functionality, by definition, does not allow a user to attach assistive technology, WCAG success criteria that assume the presence of assistive technology will not facilitate accessibility as WCAG 2.2 intends. Where assistive technologies cannot be used, other output and input solutions are needed to achieve the intent of these success criteria.

Examples the task force has considered when developing guidance include, but are not limited to: printers, watches, iOT devices, telephones (including mobile and IP phones), smart speakers and televisions, set-top boxes (e.g. cable box, DVR), tablets, VR headsets, self-service transaction machines and kiosks used for a variety of purposes.

There are other existing standards that provide accessibility requirements for both hardware and software aspects of closed functionality products. This document does not make comment on those standards, nor does it recommend WCAG success criteria to be used as requirements for hardware aspects of closed functionality products. Instead, this Note indicates considerations for application of WCAG criteria to closed functionality software user interfaces and when that might be problematic due to the underlying assumptions built into the WCAG criteria.  See [Appendix A: Success Criteria Problematic for Closed Functionality](#success-criteria-problematic-for-closed-functionality) for details.
